[music]
How much are you sleeping?
>> You know, I've never been someone who
slept all that well. Let's just say I'm,
you know, I'm I'm learning the art of
of, you know, finding ways to relax and
sleep [music] through through moments of
unusual pressure.
>> It is all moving so fast. How does it
feel on the inside?
>> It's this feeling of like the
exponential. like you know suppose you
were to accelerate away from earth on a
spaceship at relativistic speed. The way
special relativity works is you know you
go you go to sleep and you wake up and
two days have gone by on earth and so
you have to deal with two days in one
day and then you uh go to sleep and then
because you've continued to accelerate
three days have gone by on earth um and
then the next day and four days have
gone by and that's a little bit what it
feels like.
>> I mean do you go to bed constantly
paranoid about what you'll wake up to?
there are enough clear and present
issues that we have to deal with that
I'm I'm constantly dealing with those
while thinking about how we can prepare.
But, you know, you know, I I don't think
uh uh paranoia or worrying about what
you'll wake up to is productive. You
know, I've looked at people in history
who, you know, who've dealt with these
very high pressure situations. And, you
know, you need to learn to respond
rationally and and not put dangers out
of proportion to each other. This
yo-yoing between I'm not worried and oh
my god, we need to panic today. I I I I
I think that's a hallmark of immature
decision-m and the actual mature
decision-m is you can't ignore this. We
can't be complacent. In fact, it's
getting to be a bigger and bigger risk.
But, you know, we we have to respond
rationally. You know, like a like a
surgeon would deal with an operation or,
you know, like a military officer would,
you know, deal with a military operation
or, you know, someone making decisions
that affect a lot of people has to make
those decisions rationally and they have
to understand the risk. But they they
you know they have to maintain a basic
sense of calm.
[music]
>> So my son yesterday was like can I use
your claw co-work account? And I was
like absolutely not. I need my tokens.
[laughter]
>> We're seeing more and more of them even
in the consumer space. We wanted to be
more of an enterprise company but you
know it's even even even consumer
without us putting that much effort is
starting to grow fast.
>> You are at the center of the AI universe
right now. What does that feel like? The
interesting thing is is that the
experience I've had for my whole career
and certainly the whole time at
Anthropic is that there's this kind of
smooth exponential and the experience
the smooth exponential is nothing's
happening, nothing's happening,
nothing's happening. A little things
happen and then zoom it goes crazy.
That's the experience of the world.
That's the experience of the scale of
the company compared to the other
companies and compared to the world. So,
you know, I was watching this graph for
a while and I said, "Oh, yeah, we'll
probably become the AI company with, you
know, the the most revenue and the most
valuation some sometime around this time
and and indeed indeed it has happened."
Um, so in one sense, I'm not surprised
because this just a smooth line on the
graph, but of course in another sense
when things actually happen, you just
you see so much more, you know, detail
and color to it. And it, you know, it
definitely is surprising and but we're
just keeping in mind all the things we
usually keep in mind which are which are
just, you know, how do we train good
models? How do we put them in good
products? How do we make sure that
everything's safe? How do we help people
but also manage the societal risks
around the technology? It's it's all the
same questions just kind of under a
bigger under a bigger microscope as it
were.
>> What were you like as a kid growing up
in San Francisco? I know your dad was a
leather craftsman, your mom worked in
libraries. How did that shape you? you
know the whole you know like first you
know internet revolution was happening
around me and I had absolutely no
interest in it. I was just interested in
like doing math and like scroll you know
scrolling things. I was interested in
like understanding the universe. I was
interested in science fiction like that
was that was kind of the you know that
was the that was the general um that was
the general millu. I I think I just felt
a lot of curiosity about the world.
>> You grew up in the town where you know
that is the center of technology and
right now it's the center of AI. you
know, is there anything about this
place, this city here that informed your
worldview?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think the general, you
know, the general spirit of kind of, you
know, nonconformism and individualism
and it's okay to be crazy. I think I
think a good deal of that probably did
probably did probably did rub off
against me. you know, you hear these
stories about, you know, you go to
countries in Europe or, you know, even
other parts of this country where it's
it's just, you know, it's just kind of
discouraged or considered weird to like
think about things in some different
way, right? Or have some set of some set
of crazy ideas. And, you know, there's a
lot of things I'm actually very critical
about with with Silicon Valley. But one
thing that I think is good about it is
this this encouragement of like, you
know, it doesn't matter if all the
experts are against you. doesn't matter.
You know, if you have a con coherent
vision and a coherent world view of the
world, you should go and pursue it.
Maybe it just won't work at all. But but
if it does, there's this kind of
long-tailedness to it where, you know,
there are certain places you can, you
know, you can you can search certain
veins of war where, you know, you might
you might find a huge gold mine there. I
think that spirit is very important.
>> You, Daniela, your sister, and her
husband Holden Carnowski lived in a
group house together back in 2016. What
were you debating back then?
>> That was I think the time when you know
open philanthropy project was was you
know first being startup which Holden
was the lead of and I was at that time
uh you know like a a biological
scientist. So you know I was helping
them with some of the stuff they were
doing around kind of developing world
health or biological research. So you
know I I kind of advised on that stuff
and you know what were the areas that
were promising what were the areas that
were less promising.
>> Your decision to leave open AI has
become Silicon Valley lore.
>> [snorts]
>> what really happened like beyond the
narrative what were the issues what did
you disagree on
>> look I'll I'm going to say it I'm going
to say it very simply um you know there
are many difficult issues that uh you
know you face when you're building
powerful technology that entropic faces
every day where we don't know whether
we're making the right decision or the
wrong decision. Um so you know there are
many valid disagreements to be had on
safety. We certainly had some of those
disagreements with them. But you know,
people that that that that alone is not
sufficient to leave. People here have
had disagreements with me. People here
have disagreements with each other. But
when you feel that you can't trust
someone, when you feel that their values
are not what they say they are, when you
feel that they're not honest, when you
feel that they're not in it for the
reasons that they say, um, when you see
disturbing
uh uh patterns of behavior, dishonesty,
that makes it very hard to, you know, to
continue to work with a company, to
continue to trust the company. And look,
at the end of the day,
why argue with someone when you don't
have the same vision and you don't trust
them? Like the way the the way to
resolve it is you go off and do your
thing, they go off and do their thing.
And I am completely at peace with uh the
idea that we're doing things our way and
they're doing things their way. We'll
see who wins in the market and we'll see
who wins in the court of public opinion.
Um I think those things speak louder
than any drama about why who left what.
Um you know we're we're providing an
example of how to deploy this technology
um you know in what we think is a
responsible way. If they disagree they
should make that argument and you know
that I think that's really all there is
to say about it.
>> There was a moment at India's AI summit
where you and Sam Alman appeared to
refuse to hold hands on stage. What
happened there? What happened is that
the summit was extremely disorganized.
Uh we all came up at the last minute and
then they like changed the order in
which we were standing and then like
they took a picture of us and then they
ordered us all to like hold hands. You
know if you've ever been to one of these
summit I'm not saying anything bad about
India in particular but like all of
these kind of international type summits
that have like heads of state are like
super disorganized.
>> Okay. But everyone else held hands. Come
on.
>> I I look I don't know I don't know what
to tell you. Okay. There was like, you
know, Narendra Modi up there suddenly
telling everyone to like [laughter]
suddenly telling everyone to hold hands.
>> All right. All right. Well, okay. Look,
Sam and Elon are suing each other. You
don't like Sam? It seems if the people
building the most important technology
in the world can't hold hands on stage,
how can we trust you'll cooperate on
existential risk?
>> So, here is here's what I will tell you.
there is a wide variance in the quality
and the trustworthiness of the people
building this technology. I think this
meme that you know different that no one
trusts each other I don't think it's
right. You know I've known Demisabis who
builds the Gemini models that are a
competitor to Claude models. I've known
him for 15 years. We've worked together
on like you know a number of issues. We
buy compute from Google. We swap safety
ideas all the time. So, you know, my my
view of this is that one, there are some
players who are more trustworthy than
others. And, you know, I think there are
players outside Anthropic who um you
know, who who I trust, who I see as
trustworthy. What I think needs to
happen is that the trustworthy actors
need to need to get together and and put
the untrustworthy actors in a position
where they kind of have to adopt the
same standards. with a lot of
experience, I've learned that there are
some folks who don't do the right thing
on their own. But if there's a majority
of the industry that's doing the right
thing, then I think the rest of the
industry is is kind of they're left in a
position where there's not much they can
do that that then come along. There's
like the positive version of it where
you inspire other people. That's like
Demis and me inspiring each other. You
know, he does AlphaFold. We're trying to
do something in bio as well, right? We
do interpretability research, they start
interpretability research. It's not even
competition. It's just it's just you
know each company does something cool
and the other company's like that's cool
we'd like to you know do that too and
see if there's something new within that
we can do. So that's the kind of you
know the carrot side of the race to the
top. Then there's the stick side or the
implicit stick where you're like okay
these guys are doing the right thing.
Those guys will look bad if they don't
do the right thing. And often we see
behaviors where they kind of grudgingly
do the right thing while trying to
pretend they're doing something
different and there's something bad or
sinister about us. That is to be
expected. But I think that's the way we
get the industry together and that's the
way we get the industry to cooperate.
>> Now early on others focused on fun
splashy consumer apps. You made a bet on
coding and enterprise and cloud code is
a hit. Claude co-work is a hit. Why did
you make that bet? Was it a values
decision or a business decision? When
>> we started anthropic the thing that the
the base thing that mattered the thing
that always matters is we want to we
want to do this right. But then you have
to ask yourself, okay, in order to fund
the very expensive, you know, creation
of these models, it it needs to be a
company that needs to have a business
model. Does the business model get in
the way of the values? There's always
this question, but I think one of the
things I learned is, you know, just from
being at other companies and watching
other companies is look, if you pick a
business model that fundamentally
conflicts with your values, you're going
to have a hard time, right? either you
betray your own values or you become
irrelevant. Uh you know, you kind of end
up in a catch22 situation and there are
ways out, there are ways to dodge, but
it's just it's just a hard situation.
It's far better to pick a business model
that is compatible with your values. Um
and so when we thought about it, we
said, look, you know, we've seen the
world of social media, the consumer
world, it it really seems to, you know,
encourage engagement, even addiction.
you know the slop we've seen with AI
video models it's like what's going on
is it want to maximize the number of
minutes that you're you're paying
attention to because that's the
advertising revenue driven incentive um
whereas if we look at enterprise look I
mean you know we want to make these
models useful to people if I think of
all the positive things you can do with
AI right I warn a lot about the negative
things but ultimately we think the
positive things will outweigh the
negative things many of those are
basically fall under under the banner of
enterprise. You know, we want to use AI
to uh you know, cure diseases that we
couldn't cure before, right? Well,
that's working with biotech. It's
working with pharma. It's working with
academic research groups. All of those
are enterprises, right? We want to use
AI to like, you know, to make energy
cheaper and more efficient. That's
that's all enterprise. You know, we want
to use AI to help with education. Most
of that is enterprise. You know, we want
to use AI to, you know, to address, you
know, health in developing world. Well,
they're nonprofits, but those are
basically enterprises. We want to
increase economic growth. That that is
basically enterprise as well. And then I
think there's another factor which is
that enterprises care a lot about trust
and long-term relationship, right?
Consumer can have this um you know
almost this gimmicky aspect to it,
right? Where with enterprise it's like
what matters is you build a relationship
where you know you work with you work
with a company for many years. you know,
you deliver on what you say, they
deliver on what they say, and they
basically trust you. And so, it's very
synergistic with our goal of, you know,
deploying these models in a positive and
safe way. And so, I think it serves us
well to have this business model that
largely aligns with our values. Not that
there aren't conflicts sometimes, not
that there aren't hard choices we have
to make, but I think the number of such
choices is much lower than it would be
otherwise. A developer can switch from
Claude to GPT or Gemini in an afternoon.
Is it really possible to have a
long-term lead in this industry? And you
know, how long would it take a serious
competitor to replicate what you've
built?
>> Model quality is the most important
thing. Like we're we're very far ahead
right now on model quality. There is
some amount of inertia, but I've never
relied on that, right? I've never relied
on like the, you know, the the anthropic
has never relied on like, oh, this is
sticky and people won't switch. I think
you want to have a better model. You
want to have a better product. And, you
know, we we see the growth rates haven't
inflected at all. If anything, they've
gone up, at least at least at the time
of taping this interview. Um, uh, so,
you know, I think I I I I tend to think
that is the most important thing.
>> Soon after Claude Co-work was released,
$285 billion in market value vanished
overnight. traders called it the SAS
apocalypse. If AI continues improving at
this pace, how much of traditional
software gets replaced and how fast?
>> Yeah. So, you know, this is this is one
of these questions that it's kind of
very hard to predict in advance, right?
If you could predict it perfectly in
advance, then people would and they'd
make a huge amount of money on the
market and they'd always be right. So,
you know, no one no one knows exactly
what's going to happen. But I would note
a few things, right? All of these
traditional software companies have a
number of moes. I think what's going to
happen is some of these moes are going
to go away, but others are going to stay
around, right? The ability to quickly
write software, I I definitely think
that's going away, right? If if your
moat is we wrote this complex software
that no one else can write, like good
luck. You're not going to be able to
defend that. But I think folks have
customer relationships. Folks have
knowhow of how, you know, of how the
field works. folks have unique domain
knowledge. Um, so I think my advice to
all of these folks is obviously, you
know, don't be complacent. Don't ignore
it. Make a list of all your moes and be
very aware that some of them are going
to go away. um while others are going to
become relatively more important because
they're the limiting factors and there
may also be new moes and I think those
that deafly respond that you know lean
into the list of moes that are still
present as well as the new ones will do
well. I think those that are complacent
that um kind of you know just delude
themselves that what worked in the past
will will continue to work they're
they're not going to have a good time.
Um, so that is that is the advice I
would give and you know I I I think at
the end of the day I would guess I it
depends what you call SAS and what you
don't call SAS but like I would guess
that the software industry gets larger
not smaller although there there will be
some big losers.
>> Explain that.
>> I just think the pie is getting bigger
right like I think I think with AI like
the pie is getting bigger. The existing
incumbents may be smaller in relative
terms. Some of them may may go down in
value. Some of them may even may even go
out of business if they don't adapt in
the right way. But I I I you know I
think you I think you see this often
when growth is really fast, right? If
the you know if the if if if what's
possible with AI grows by 10x, it's very
easy for an existing incumbent industry
to go up by 1.5x, right? Just just, you
know, not as much as the whole big pie
is growing. So I think that may happen.
That that's not to say we won't have s
some big losers. I think those who don't
adapt, who put their heads in the sand,
who don't kind of see what's coming, who
don't identify the moes they have,
they're going to have a really hard
time.
>> Your biggest backers are companies like
Amazon and Google and Microsoft and
Invidia. These are companies that all
have their own agendas. They are
partners and rivals. You have huge
commercial milestones tied to funding.
Who's really calling the shots? There
have been a number of cases where we've
really spoken our minds about what we
think. You know, I've been very
outspoken about the need for export
controls on chips to China, right? I I I
say this because I think it would be
really bad for America, for, you know,
the state of democracy in the world for,
you know, China to be ahead in AI
capabilities. And, you know, it's it's
like some of the chip makers obviously
don't agree with that view, but it
hasn't stopped me from saying it. I'm
saying it again now, even after we've
signed more partnerships. What they know
is that we always work with them. We've
been good partners. Um, you know, we can
work together. I'm sure they wish we
didn't say these things, but these
things are what are what I believe. What
are you going to do? You know, they're
they're at the end of the day, they want
the, you know, they benefit from these
deals as much as we do. You know, look,
we're all adults here. We can work
together on one thing while disagreeing
about another thing. Bloomberg's
reported that you're at valuations that
are higher than OpenAI. We're talking
nearly a trillion dollars for a
5-year-old startup. How do you make
sense of that number? And why do you
need that much money? If you, you know,
you're more disciplined on compute, you
have a faster path to profit.
>> The compute is ramping up very quickly,
right? So it it can both be the case
that the fundamentals of the business
look good but in you know in a year
you'll have three times as much compute
as you know three times or four times or
I'm not going to give exact numbers but
like these compute ramps are very fast
and we have every expectation that the
revenue you know ramp will meet and
exceed those but raising money is is
kind of the buffer against this cone of
uncertainty. So it's a totally rational
thing to do. It's it's a very small
dilution to the business. Um, and it
logically is not at all the same thing.
In fact, it's compatible with the
opposite as you know that there's
anything wrong with the fundamentals of
the business.
>> There have been reports of server
strain, reliability issues, people
complaining about running out of tokens.
You've said other companies are yoloing
on infrastructure. Do you actually have
what you need or are you playing
catch-up?
>> So, uh, one of these things about
compute is there's a market in compute,
right? So you know my view is that over
a period of time even longer than a
couple months like uh you know we can
get large amounts of compute. One one
thing that's worth saying here is you
know I don't think we bought too little
compute by any reasonable standard. So
you know we were planning for a 10x a
year growth in compute. 10x a year is
what we expect. Um that isn't what we've
seen over the first quarter of 2026. We
saw a greater than 3x growth in revenue
quarterly just in a not annualized 3x in
the quarter which of course three to the
fourth power is 80x over the course of
the year. We didn't plan for 80x
annualized growth. It would not have
been rational to plan for 80x annualized
growth because that means if you only
get 10x you know that you you have eight
times less. So we're we're we're in a
locally extreme, you know, explosion of
compute. That's not going to continue.
If that continued, you know, you just
get to revenue by the end of the year,
you get to revenue numbers that no
company on Earth. I don't think that's
going to happen. Um it just it just
can't. But you can have these short
periods where it's like, oh my god, like
you know, this is faster growth than we
ever ever possibly anticipated. But I
don't know, you saw the compute deals
with Google, you saw the compute deals
with Amazon. you know, there are more
that we kind of can and will do. Like,
you know, the market's liquid. Like, if
if if you know, if you're able to use
compute really well and there's the
demand, you'll get your compute. It
might might just take a month or two.
>> Does it feel good to surpass your arch
rival?
>> Look, I we have a lot of difficult
challenges in front of us. There's this
race to the top idea that we're trying
to pull other companies along with us.
And I think we've seen that we have
pulled them along with us. Sometimes
they don't admit that that's what
they're doing. Sometimes they copy us
while they're attacking us. But but this
pull is very valuable. And so I think
the value of being the preeminent
company both commercially and in terms
of models, you know, it's it's not about
beating rivals for the sake of beating
rivals. It's it's about having the
ability to pull the ecosystem along with
us. Um and we hope that we can do more
of that in the future.
>> But winning has to feel just a little
bit good. I mean, look, we're always
trying to succeed, right? Like, we're
always trying to, you know, we're not
we're not trying to fail here, right?
Like, I'm not someone who believes we
should shut this technology down. We
shouldn't build it. Like, you know, we
we we we, you know, we we exist within a
free enterprise system. And and you
know, there's there's nothing there's
nothing wrong with this. We just have to
mitigate the risks of the models, right?
And and so it's always been the balance
between the two. Now, for most of
anthropics history, you were the
underdog. I imagine it's easier to take
the moral high ground when you have
nothing to lose. At this scale, how hard
is it to stay true to your values?
>> What I would say is that, you know, I've
put a lot of time into thinking about uh
how how that's the case. You know, as as
as companies scale, you know, I've been
paranoid at every scale. At every scale
of the company, there's some new
challenge. there's some new way the
company can lose either its um its kind
of will to win just commercially or kind
of the core of its values. I'm I'm
worried about both because I see them as
synergistic. I actually see the fact
that we've been able to make such good
models as the thing that that allows us
to assert our values in a way that works
as the company grows, as it gets bigger.
There are lots of pitfalls here. There
are lots of ways to go wrong. Not
because me or the co-founders or the
company's leaders values change, but
because the composition of the company
changes very fast. So I spend probably
half of my time just talking to the
company about the culture of Anthropic
and how the culture works. Right? When
you're growing this fast, you're hiring
a bunch of people from big tech
companies. If you don't tell them how
anthropic operates, they'll simply
recapitulate the only thing they know,
which is how to operate at the companies
that they came from. And so this is a
constant struggle and a constant
challenge. And you know, it's like, you
know, me and Daniela's maybe number one
top priority is is figuring out how to
preserve this because we recognize that
this is the core of who we are in the
long run. [music]
>> Your product velocity is insane. You're
shipping so much so fast. How are you
[music] doing it?
>> I would say two things. The first is,
you know, we have a unified company. We
have a unified culture. you know, I
think we've gotten, you know, grown
larger while still being incredibly
efficient, everyone's still being on the
same page, like just the cultural and
organizational unity. I would say that's
the biggest factor. And I would say the
second biggest factor is Claude itself
that we're now using Claude to help, you
know, develop our models and, you know,
make them more efficient and quickly
develop products. There's all kinds of
new practices you have to develop. you
know, we're we're still new we're still
new at it, but you know, it's producing
it's producing a lot of acceleration and
increasingly producing reliable
acceleration. And so those are the two
factors I would point to.
>> Will you tell me the most wild thing
you've seen AI do?
>> I think some of the wildest stuff I've
seen is around uh biology and medicine.
I've seen a number of cases, including
Daniela actually, where Claude diagnosed
a medical problem that uh you know, a
bunch of fancy doctors had missed. And
on the biology side like the models are
starting to get surprisingly good at
like you know you know tasks like drug
design or you know computational
chemistry or things like and I'm just
like wow you know as someone who used to
be a biologist I look at it and I'm like
wow that's hard like you need a lot of
training to do that and like Claude is
getting good at it and that's one area
where I think we're going to get a hell
of a lot of benefit like that's the
positive for AI we're going to get these
huge enormous benefits life is going to
get better the quality of human
experience is going to get better. Um,
>> a century of scientific progress,
>> a century of scientific progress and a
century of progress in what it's like to
be human. Like a go back to 1900. Think
of all the problems we had in 1900s, all
the reasons people died prematurely, all
the problems they had to suffer, all the
material deprivation that we don't have
to deal with today. Then think of
another hundred years of that. I really
believe this century of scientific and
medical progress, if we can get through
this, and I I think we will. I'm
increasingly optimistic, we're gonna
have a much much better world.
>> I know how much you love writing. You're
known for your essays. Do you use Claude
to help write?
>> Uh, I do. I have not gotten to the point
where I actually allow text directly
written by Claude in in because I I I
just have such a specific style that I'm
I'm a little picky about it. But I
basically use Claude to like, you know,
to help me brainstorm, to help me think
through the themes, to help me kind of,
oh, you know, what are some references I
could use for this? Um, so it it kind of
plays a supportive role. I don't know
how far we are from Claude being able to
write better than me. We're not quite
there yet, but but you know, I think I
think certainly it's coming.
>> I love writing, too, and I you know, I
feel like writing it helps you struggle
through ideas. There is a lot of
critical thinking involved in that. Do
we lose that if we let Claude do it for
us? I
>> I'm I'm a little worried about that. And
in fact, that's half the reason I write
myself. It certainly is for external
audiences. Many people read what I
write, but it is just as much to clarify
my own thinking so that I kind of know
what to do next and to create a common
reference point across me and others. I
think we're still grappling with the
question of how exactly do we use AI in
a way that kind of preserves those
benefits. I think the thing I'm doing
now does that where I use Claude for
research and I use Claude for kind of
you know how do I help organize my own
thoughts I think if we just used it end
to end like write an essay about the
risks of AI first of all it wouldn't
write the things that I think but also I
would I would exactly lose that benefit
there's some way as the models get
better I think probably to to use them
directly much more directly in the
writing and yet still preserve those
benefits but I think it's going to be a
subtle It won't be all one thing. We'll
have to kind of figure it out over time.
I think we could have this very unusual
combination of very fast GDP growth and
high unemployment or at least
undermployment or you know low wage job,
a lot of low-wage jobs, high inequality.
>> He's been really direct about job loss.
AI could eliminate half of all
entrylevel white collar jobs in the next
1 to 5 years. That was a year ago. AI
has moved incredibly fast. Is it still
50% or is it higher?
>> I've always said and you know if you go
back to those original clips they always
get like you know cut out of context in
like the 3 seconds but like you know the
the real statement was always I don't
know what's going to happen but this is
an order of magnitude for how crazy
things could be. Also, I always talk
about all the things we can do in
response to this, right? I've talked
about token tax and working with
enterprises to adjust people and I'm a
little skeptical of retraining programs,
but like we should throw them in the
mix. Uh macroeconomic policy. Even from
the beginning, I always talked about
solutions, but you know, somehow there's
this tendency in the human psychology to
clip the 3 seconds of like doom is
coming. Um so my message is just
definitely not doom is coming. My
message is like this is something, you
know, that we should see coming that
we're worried about and that we need to
actually respond to positively. You
know, I I I I don't know exactly, but
I'm I'm still pretty concerned. I'm
still the same order of concern. You
know, we are seeing right now that AI is
making people more productive. But
that's the usual hump. If you go back,
you know, to the kind of industrial
revol, you know, I wrote about this in
adolescence of technology. You automate
90% of the job. Great. people are 10
times more productive in the other 10%
because they're 10 times more leveraged.
But eventually it gets close to 100%.
Now the sequel to that is well then you
have to find something else for them to
do. I I don't know about the long run.
I'm truly uncertain about that. But I do
think there are types of adaptation like
one thing I'll talk about is um you know
software engineers within anthropic.
We're going through this transition
right now where you know right now AI
makes the software engineers more
productive even though AI writes all the
code or almost all the code but still it
makes people more productive but we're
already starting to see the beginning of
like you know there may be some people
that it's it's not making more
productive that it's better for the AI
to just to just do the thing. So that's
one side of it. The other side of it
though is what do we need more demand
for? You know there's something we call
a forward deployed engineer or an like
applied AI solutions architect where
their job is a mix of technical work and
talking to customers. There's a lot of
demand for that because there's a lot of
customers and we're growing very
quickly. Now does every person who is in
the pure software engineering quite work
for that this not you know it's not
perfect it's not one to one that gives
you a flavor of there's going to be a
hell of a lot of disruption but things
will also adjust which wins out I don't
know but the reason it's important to
warn about it is that that's how we can
respond that's how we can make policy
right both within anthropic and
macroeconomically for the whole world we
want to put out carefully considered
thoughts. We don't want to say things
that people don't believe we'll actually
do. We don't want to say things that are
halfbaked. We want to think carefully
about what should actually be done about
these these problems.
>> You put out this chart showing potential
job disruption like sales, finance, you
know, which jobs go away, who gets
replaced, and what new jobs are created.
>> So, no one knows for sure. Um because,
you know, the economy is unpredictable,
right? It's the same as the stock
market, right? there these kind of
decentralized processes that you you
don't really know ahead of time what are
the pieces of the job that people are
still going to be able to do but what I
would say broadly is that you know
anywhere that you have you know these
kind of entrylevel white collar you know
whether it's banking whether it's
finance whether it's you know there's
there's you know there's there's going
to be a lot of potential for AI to first
make people more productive but you know
then then then there's going to be you
know then then there's going to be a
wholesale sale AI can do the job and
then we're going to have to think about
well you know what is it that people can
do and I think we need to plan about
that ahead of time we're already doing
it when we talk to enterprise customers
we see choices that they face they face
the choice of you know should I save
cost which often means hiring less
people basically do the same thing with
less resources or should we do more
things with the same amount of resources
and we always when we can try to push
them to doing more with the same amount
of resources because basically that
means like hire the same number of
people or maybe even more people um but
just do do kind of kind of do new things
pushing them towards the positive sum.
The thing that that we have going for us
here is the pie is going to expand a lot
and so because the pie is going to
expand a lot there are probably going to
be places where people can go. It's just
a matter of finding them fast enough.
It's the size of the disruption. It's
it's going to be big and that's what I'm
warning people about. But we kind of we
have to solve that matching problem.
>> So play this out for me a little bit.
You know, you wake up in 5 years. What
does this country look like? What are
those people doing? Because if there's
that much unemployment, is that not how
revolutions start?
>> Yeah. No, this is the outcome we want to
prevent. This is absolutely the outcome
we want to prevent. Um, you know, I
think I think there's I think there's a
few places. None of them are guaranteed.
We're not sure. But there's the physical
world, right? Like things that are in
the physical world. Yes, there's a
robotics revolution as well, but it's a
lot slower than what's happening in AI.
People always talk about building data
centers, but like when processing
information of any type becomes a lot
easier. Maybe the restriction is going
to be things in the physical world. And
so we need a lot of more people to make,
build, manufacture things in the
physical world. Anything that's human-
centered, I think that's going to be a
big deal, right? I hear all these
stories about AI found something that my
like my doctor couldn't find and I feel
h but like but there's a people really
want to talk to other humans
particularly over kind of important
things right maybe AI can do better
customer service but nevertheless people
or at least some people want to talk to
humans so these kind of human
relationship driven jobs like I think
those are going to be important right
and I think there will be some effort by
the humans to kind of direct the AIS
right at some level it has to be in line
with someone's values and someone's
intentions. Um, and and so I I think
there's going to be some role there,
although I don't know how thin versus
how thick it will be. I think it's very
hard to say.
>> There has been a lot of push back and I
know you've said you're trying to warn
people, but that, you know, you're, you
know, Jensen Hong said you're conflating
tasks with jobs. Um, other folks have
said this, you know, it's sort of doom
marketing that benefits anthropics.
>> So, so I want to be really clear and
push back hard against this. the whole
picture of there are risks to job loss
and here are some ideas. I mean, we
haven't fully fleshed out the ideas
because I want to get them right. But
Anthropic has come up with lots of
ideas. We've had economic grants. We
have the economic index. I talk about
the um the uh possible ways to address
these risks from tax and macroeconomic
policy to what the new jobs are. In the
adolescence of technology, I lay out um
you know, I have like five pages where I
lay out the difference between tasks and
jobs, why this time is different than
other times, a list of six different
things we can do from private
philanthropy to government action. I
talk about the problems. I talk about
the solutions. But social media, which I
detest, which I detest as a category,
people have these 3-se secondond clips
from, you know, from a year ago. They
don't actually read the essays or they
prey on the idea that social media I
I've I've written much more carefully
about these things where where I talk
about the risks. The idea that this is
cheap marketing is itself cheap
marketing. This is this is laziness.
This is failure to engage with serious
intellectual work. Um, and and I think
that is part of the problem. Again, I
think it's it's part of the disease of
Silicon Valley. It's been caught up in
this social media world of of of 3
seconds and so people only respond to it
or they think they only have to respond
to it. Again, I think it's very
dangerous and we've failed to have a
mature conversation. Instead, people
just lazily see this like 3 second clip
and and they're like, "Oh, this is what
Daria was saying." It's it's so stupid.
It's so unserious. And whenever someone
says something like that, I take them
less seriously.
One of the leading AI companies in the
world is deeply embedded in many
different aspects of US national
security across military operations.
>> The standoff between Anthropic and the
Pentagon over AI military safeguards is
ramping up.
>> [music]
>> You've had a long-standing anti-war
stance dating all the way back to your
days at Caltech. And yet, you were one
of the first AI companies to sign a
contract with the Department of Defense
to operate on classified networks that
the US uses to fight wars. Explain that.
>> Yeah. So, you know, what I would say is
is look, I mean, the world the world
changes like, you know, my my view of
this technology, you know, when I see
Russia invading Ukraine, when I see the
risk of China invading Taiwan, it
worries me that we have a kind of
resurgent authoritarian block. Um, that
they're very aggressive and that we need
to defend ourselves. That is something
that I you know have believed for a
while now continue to believe and and
that's why across both administrations
you know you know AC you know I may not
agree with every policy of of either
administration but you know that's why
we've generally been supportive of this.
We don't want a world where China and
Russia can build, you know, can analyze
all the intelligence with AI, can, you
know, can can use AI for, you know, for
attacking Taiwan and Ukraine and and we
can't uh defend them. So that's why we
worked with them. We certainly don't do
it for the the money. It's a huge pain,
you know, even even even putting aside
the the lawfare, it's just a huge pain
to get up on government networks for not
that much money. So we did it because we
cared about it. Um but similarly because
we're doing it because we cared about it
there need to be limitations on the use
of the technology and the formulation
that I used in adolescence of
technology. We should use this
technology in every way except the the
ways that undermine our own values right
and our red lines of mass surveillance
and fully autonomous weapons. Those are
things that I believe undermine our
values. It's not worth democracies
winning if democracies do those things.
Uh and and so that's the that's the
balance that I that I see and that's the
stand that we took and it explains both
why we were the first to work with
Department of War and why there were
some things we wouldn't do when when
others were willing to do those things.
I I think you need to pick a stand and
stand your ground. This idea of you know
companies that seesaw from we won't do
anything with the government to suddenly
we're doing absolutely everything with
the government. I don't I don't get it.
You should pick your principles and
stick with them. You've been working
with Palunteer since 2024. That's right.
You know, their technology is used by
ICE police departments in Gaza. Is
Claude being used for surveillance in
other ways?
>> We don't work with ICE either through uh
either through Palunteer or anyone else.
We don't work with CBP. Um I don't
believe we work in Gaza. Um you know,
our are we're we're very careful about,
you know, scoping our engagements to
things that we believe in.
>> So, you know, you drew your red lines.
The president banned you from the
federal government. the Pentagon labeled
you a supply chain risk. Open AI jumped
in and signed the contract that you
wouldn't. Um, what does winning this
fight actually look like?
>> You know, I don't think there's any
winning this fight for a private
company. Like this isn't a fight
anthropic is is trying to win or thinks
about winning or losing. This is more a
I won't even call it a fight. This is
more a debate about what the proper use
of AI by the government is. And AI is an
emerging new technology. We don't
understand the ways in which it's
reliable or unreliable. We don't
understand the ways in which it promotes
our values or undermines our values. And
so one of the things that I thought was
important was to establish a precedent
on some of the some of the use cases we
think are good, which frankly is most of
them, and some some of the use cases
that we're concerned about. And as I've
said, we've already seen, you know, you
can only do so much with a contract,
right? as we've seen, someone else can
sign a contract that doesn't respect
your your same red lines. But what it
has done is raised awareness for the
issue. And then we have serious
bipartisan efforts in Congress
attempting to ban some of the things
that were concerned about and attempting
to set guard rails. Again, I don't want
to talk about this as a fight, but
that's kind of winning the effort to get
our country to think more carefully
about what is appropriate use of this
[music] technology. topic is run by an
ideological lunatic who shouldn't have
the
>> but that's not my question. My question
is a decision making over what we do.
>> Do you mind being called an ideological
lunatic or a bunch of leftwing nut jobs?
>> Um you know I've been called worse
things than that all the time. Um you
know people people can call me or
anthropic you know people can call me or
anthropic whatever they want. The two
things that matter are we're successful
as a company and you know we stand up
for our values. Like I actually in some
ways my life is really easy because when
those are your you know those are the
two things you're trying to do. It's
it's it's really simple right like it
you know you just you always know where
you stand.
>> A US official has said with the help of
LLMs the US military has gone from being
able to hit a thousand targets a day to
5,000 targets a day. That means Claude
can help kill more people more quickly.
Are you comfortable with that?
>> I think there's two things here right?
There is there is the ability of the
United States, you know, to be more
effective militarily. I am I I am
supportive of that ability. I think
having that ability be stronger doesn't
cause wars. It deters wars. Like, you
know, I basically you're asking like,
you know, do you believe in this
country, right? Do you want this country
to be a more powerful actor rather than
a less powerful actor on the world
stage? I do. I'm a patriot. There's a
separate question which is you know are
there particular policies that the US
government is engaged in that I might
support or not support. Obviously I
support some of them and I don't support
others of them. It's not up to me if we
provide a technology. You know the DO
made this point and we actually agree
with them. If we provide a technology
it's not up to us to say you can do this
military operation and you can't do that
military operation. Now I might
privately believe that this military
operation makes sense and that military
operation is a bad idea but we're not
going to deny the techn you you have to
leave policy in the hands of the
military decision makers. What you can
do is to assert some highlevel
boundaries that you know for for us
prevent the use cases that seem
inconsistent with with our values with
our country's values and promote the use
cases that we think you know we think we
think encourage our values. So that's
how we think about it.
>> Bloomberg has reported that claude is
being used by the US military in the war
in Iran to do AI assisted targeting via
platform made by Palunteer Maven smart
system. In February, a US missile
reportedly hit a girl school in Iran,
killing more than 150 people, most of
them children.
Did Claude play a role in that strike?
>> We look, we don't have access to, you
know, we we don't know exactly how um
you know, these models were used, you
know, obviously like you know,
these things that that you know,
mistakes that happen in warfare are
really really terrible. Like this is a
really terrible thing to happen. If that
doesn't make clear why we have to, you
know, stand up for use cases that, you
know, we don't we don't support, like,
you know, we we we were willing to risk
the future of our company to like limit
how, you know, these models are used.
And, you know, what what you're talking
about is a use case that doesn't even
violate our red lines. We're worried
that there will be a hundred times as
much, you know, with with use cases that
that that do violate our red lines. Now,
you know, I I I you know, again, again,
I would say I think overall the use of
these the the use of these models is
appropriate. I think it's good on net.
Um, you know, but military decision
makers make terrible mistakes even even
at the best of times. And I I don't know
if we're in the best of times like there
are several things we can talk about. We
can talk about making red lines that,
you know, prevent uses of the models
that are more likely to lead to those
problems, right? If we had allowed, you
know, fully at if we had just given in,
which almost every other company now
has, to fully autonomous weapons, right?
This is like a human what what we've
seen here is Claude assists, but a human
makes the final call. So, a human made
that final call, not Claude. Imagine if
you had a world in which not Claude
because we haven't allowed it, but
someone else's AI model, the AI model
just makes the decision and the human
never sees it. That's what we were
standing up for. That's what we were
fighting against. I would I would also
say, you know, there's a separate thing
here. Again, I don't think procurement
is the right way to do it, but like, you
know, we we we need to make sure that,
you know, it's it's a matter of interest
to the American people. Not to me as a
supplier of the technology, but to the
American people that our military
decision makers don't make these
mistakes, that they operate reliably,
that, you know, they choose wisely what
to do. Again, you know, that's that's of
concern to me as a as a you know, as a
citizen, as a supplier of the technology
like you know, the government uses us
Microsoft Excel a lot. You know, if I
said micro you can use Excel for you
know th this military operation but not
you can't you can't realistically do
that. Um but hopefully that gives you a
sense of how we think about it.
>> This school had a website you could have
found it in a Google search like
shouldn't Claude have spotted that?
Should an AI or whatever technology they
used have spotted that? And it does it
speak to a scarier issue about using
technology as a shortcut in war?
>> Look, I look what I'm what I you know
what I'm going to say is you know and
and I you know I don't I don't know this
relies on you know maybe classified
knowledge that I don't have but um you
know the principle that that we have
established and I think the principle
that was obeyed here is a human makes
the human makes the final decision. I
don't know what role Claude or any other
AI had, but like if if this isn't an
illustration why that principle is so
important, I don't know what is.
>> Is AI warfare
more likely to stop World War II, a war
between the US and China, or is it more
likely to make it happen?
>> I would say on balance it is more likely
to stop it. Um, but if we have no limits
on how it's used, um, uh, then I think,
you know, it could be more likely to
cause it. You You've seen Doctor Strange
Love, right? The premise of it was like
you have a doomsday device that
automatically fires nuclear weapons when
it thinks nuclear weapons are being
fired at it. What could go wrong? Right?
Again, I I I get to this lethal, you
know, fully autonomous weapons thing. I
think the way conflicts happen is that,
you know, the the two sides jump at each
other. They misunderstand each other.
And when we don't have proper oversight
of this technology, I think those kinds
of accidents are more likely to happen.
Now, I think if AI is used in an
appropriate way in in in not even
warfare, but think of just just
intelligence collection, um, you know,
let let's say we're able to, you know,
predict an invasion of Taiwan or a new
movement in Ukraine. like, you know, our
adversaries will think twice about uh,
you know, about conducting some kind of
invasion or military operation if we
know everything that they're doing. Um,
and so I think superior intelligence
really can deter conflict here. Superior
ability to respond can deter conflict. I
continue to be a believer in these
things.
>> Anthropics making headlines almost on a
weekly basis and most notably now around
mythos. Of course, this is the latest
and greatest anthropic model and it is
capable of going through all the links
of the cyber [music] kill chain and
doing so autonomously.
>> You said Mythos was too powerful to
release to the public. What surprised
you most about it?
>> I think the thing that surprised me most
about it was the models had been
climbing in their ability to find
vulnerabilities and importantly turn
those vulnerabilities into exploits
which people only talk about the
vulnerabilities. They don't often talk
about turning the vulnerabilities into
exploits which it it was quite good at.
So the things that surprised me are we
saw this huge jump. It was a
particularly large jump. And without us
really um prompting them at all, some of
the early companies that we gave this to
said things like this is a super weapon.
You should have to own a gun license to
use it. Please don't release this. like
the the demand to do this was coming
from the companies we gave it to who
were finding so many critical
vulnerabilities and exploitability
around these critical vulnerabilities
that you know they they were basically
asking us not to not to um not to
release it. Now to be clear because
things always get distorted in the world
of social media. The goal isn't to keep
this locked up forever. We're kind of
gradually trying to open this up to a
wider and wider set of people and
eventually we believe that we should
release mythos to to you know to a
general audience but with kind of strong
cyber safeguards. Now a concern is
today's cyber safeguards which we did
release on opus 4.7 which is a good
cyber model but a substantially weaker
one. these can be jailbroken and we're a
little concerned about some of the other
companies who think this is a sufficient
defense um because yeah it works
sometimes but you know we all know that
these classifiers can be jailbroken or
gone around and our own testing as well
as frankly our assessment of the models
that other the defenses that other
companies have put in place suggest that
these defenses are not strong enough yet
and and that's what we're waiting for
getting the defenses is to the point
where we really have confidence in them.
>> There was a lot of push back on it. Um,
you know, you have researchers saying
they were able to replicate it using,
you know, cheaper open source models.
Some folks say OpenAI, you know, has
these capabilities already. You know,
what do you say to folks who say this is
a grand PR?
>> The claim that uh could be replicated
with open-source models, that's just
incredibly false. So the idea is Mythos
looks across the whole codebase and
finds something. Some guy went on
Twitter and said, "Well, if you point an
open source model at exactly the line of
code that Mythos finds, then it finds
the same issue." That that that isn't
the that isn't the prompt. That isn't
the question, right? Like that is not
that is not the same thing. The ultimate
test of this is like we go to companies,
we go to open source repos. We found 271
new vulnerabilities in Firefox. We've
found many thousands within the private,
you know, companies who haven't fixed
them yet or can't disclose them yet.
Like, no one found those 271
vulnerabilities with the previous
models. So, like the actual workflow of
what actually works in practice as
opposed to, you know, okay, I find the
exact line that Mythos found, you know,
I found the needle in the hay stack.
Something else can now pick up the
needle.
>> But what about the folks who say this
was just good marketing? You know, we
have suffered enormously commercially
from not releasing this model. Um, this
model has incredibly accelerated uh
research within anthropic and production
and next models. It would do the same in
the outside world if we were to release
it. This has hurt us enormously
commercially.
>> If this helps defenders, it also helps
attackers. Can we defend anything
anymore?
>> What I would say is that the reason that
we're giving mythos to defenders before
we give it to attackers is to patch all
the bugs. I don't know as the models get
better there may be more and more bugs
to be found but there's only so many
they're finite right it's like you have
this surface and there's only so many
holes in it you you patch all the holes
and then the surface becomes very hard
to attack as well as the code itself is
written with the powerful models so it's
it's then becomes very hard to um find
flaws in or break into so I think on the
other side of this hopefully 6 months or
a year from now we have a much more
secure internet ecosystem than we had in
the past. We're trying to get to that
world and we're doing the best we can to
open up Mythos to new um cyber
defenders. We've been talking to the
government. We're very respectful of
their recommendations. They're slowing
the pace at which we open it up because
they're worried about counter
intelligence risk. I think that's
sensible. I think all serious people
here understand that there's real
trade-offs here. [snorts] We see a lot
of sniping from people on Twitter and
from, you know, from other AI companies.
you look at what they're saying and the
inconsistency with what they're doing.
It's not they're not serious people.
They're not seriously engaging with the
the serious tradeoffs that that that
that we have here. Look, I have
customers calling me up every day
saying, "I want access to Mythos." I
have countries call calling me up
saying, "I want access to Mythos." And I
have the US government and my security
team saying, "No, wait a minute. There's
risk to it." Well, you know, I'm not
saying one side or the other is right. I
think it's somewhere in between. Both
sides have valid points. But there's a
real challenge here and we need to face
it together as a society. Not accuse
things of being cheap marketing, not use
cheap marketing to try and
counterposition, which some of the other
companies are doing. It it just it just
all shows an an incredible lack of
gravitas and maturity. We need to all
face these mo this moment together. Have
you had to make trade-offs already that
you're not entirely comfortable with?
>> Throughout the entire history of
anthropic has been trade-offs, right?
The entire history of anthropic, right?
Where, you know, in in in in in in some
ideal world, you would you know, you
would you would prefer to before you
release the first chatbot, you know, you
could you could spend years studying,
you know, every possible thing that
could go wrong with it. Now, we did
delay we did delay the initial release
of Claude, but, you know, we did it for
a few months. So what I'm saying is
everything is a trade-off. You know, the
the extreme ends of the spectrum are are
are completely insane, right? And so
everything is a trade-off. What I would
say is that now that we're in, you know,
what I would describe as a commercially
leading position, I I'm actually and
Daniela are actually doing all we can to
move the dial even further towards
towards being careful. That's what the
Mythos release was was about, right?
It's very hard to do something like that
if you're not the leading player. Um,
and so I think you're going to see more
things more things like that.
>> You know, there's this argument, why
wouldn't the government take you over?
Why would they let a private company
control technology that's so powerful?
>> So, I actually think that's a very uh
that's a very serious question and I
share those concerns. Um, uh, I don't
think the government should outright
take us over. Um, but I would put it
this way. Um, I would say just to back
up and describe the situation, every
previous powerful technology we've seen
in history was either built by the
government or originated with the
government. So nuclear weapons
obviously, you know, initially built by
the government and pretty much built by
the government after that. But even like
the internet, GPS, cell phones, all the
R&D was, you know, was done in the labs
and the federal labs in the
universities. AI is the first technology
that's been built in the private sector
um and where government has not really
had a serious role and is coming in late
to the game. I think that's actually a
dangerous and unstable situation. It is
not the situation I would have chosen.
There's not really an alternative like
you know this technology is possible to
build. Our adversaries are building it
has economic value like it's it's going
to get built. The the issue is the
government not doing it not the private
sector doing it. Um, I think we need to
think about checks and balances on
power. So, I think there need to be
checks and balances on the power of the
AI companies. Right? We have this thing
the long-term benefit trust. What that
is is it's a set of basically it's a
body that can uh uh appoint the majority
of the board members and remove the
majority of the board members. So, it
bas it essentially if you thread it
through has the power to fire me. And
what we're looking at is we're
introducing some elements, you know,
nowhere near all the elements, but we're
introducing a a little bit of the
elements of like public governance,
right? Where where it's like, you know,
you're accountable to someone who just
doesn't who doesn't just have stock in
the company. So that's that's very
important and that structure is going to
continue no matter what happens to the
company. That's on the AI and we
encourage other companies to have
similar structures. Um, on the
government side, I think we need checks
and balances. You know, there are there
are efforts in Congress that have been
announced to enact those red lines,
right? So, I really think the, you know,
the legislative branch and the judicial
branch need to exert themselves because
this technology, I'm scared of companies
having it, but I'm also scared of
government having it. And then the
companies need to provide checks on
government and the government needs to
provide checks on companies. You know,
we need basic regulation of the
technology. You know, I think we need to
start doing pre-release testing,
required pre-release testing, testing
and auditing of the models. You know, it
it's very funny to me how there's a
particular group of people in the tech
world in Silicon Valley who started, you
know, that they started with a position
of like even having transparency around
this technology, even export control,
you know, this is all, you know, just
totally it'll apocalyptically destroy
our potential to create the technology.
It'll kill innovation. And then as soon
as they see the first real danger, which
I've been expecting all along, there's
all this talk of like nationalization
and the government should just seize it.
Come on folks here. You're yo you're
yo-yoing from like the most extreme
anti-regulatory,
you know, you know, if you if you look
at us the wrong way, you're destroying
the industry to, you know, this
completely communist, the government
should grab it all. We need a more we
need a more sensible moderate approach.
That's the one we've been favoring all
along because we've we've understood the
power of this technology. We're not
panicking. We're not denying it. We see
the smooth exponential and we're
responding to it appropriately.
>> So, how was your visit back to the White
House?
>> You know, we always try to work together
with whoever we can in government. You
know, I I I said we have this simple
approach like we have a set of
principles. We like follow those
principles and we hope that folks on the
other side are reasonable. And you know,
honestly, the government has taken
Mythos very seriously. Like we've had
good conversations with Secretary
Bessant, with Chief of Staff Susie
Wilds. I think they really understand,
you know, the nature of the risks here.
Mythos has, I think, you know, helped
them to feel much more concretely where
these risks are. So, you know, again, as
with any administration, there are parts
who we get along with very well and who
understand it. And you know there are
other parts that are harder to get along
with. I think that's normal. That would
be the case in any in any administration
and we just try to navigate it as best
we can. [music]
>> You worked at BYU earlier in your
career, big Chinese tech company. You
worked at the Silicon Valley outpost of
it and you've been clear on your views
on China. Strong open source models are
coming out of China and you have US
companies building on them for free. Is
that a threat? So, you know, one of the
things we've seen with this technology
is that there's really a premium to how
intelligent the models are. Um, we very
very rarely see um that people would
prefer to use models with lower
intelligence. Now, to be clear, there's
a thriving ecosystem. There are lots of
challenges and problems that are much
easier than, you know, the ones we need
frontier models for. But again, it's an
exponential, right? Like it's possible
that like these far from frontier models
have economic value comparable to what
we saw in 2023 and 2024. But again, we
have this 10x a year growth. And and and
so what what we find is that what's on
the frontier is always much much larger
than what is what is away from the
frontier. I think this is something that
people who are used to building products
in the previous era don't quite
understand. Right? as someone who's come
in who, you know, hadn't run a company
before, who's like, you know, has never
thought about the previous product era,
particularly to test the social media
era. Um, I feel like an outsider to that
world and I I I feel that people's
instincts are wrong. Um, they have all
these kind of product heristics and I
think the 10x per year model exponential
really breaks that. like intelligence is
just such a huge factor that it
outweighs everything else. And so we're
just seeing over and over again that you
know the value is found on the frontier.
Now what I do worry about with some of
these lagard models is the risks of them
where we have mythosclass cyber
capabilities. 12 months from now we'll
have much better cyber capabilities, but
the mythosclass cyber capabilities may
just be available for for anyone to uh
to download. Now hopefully we'll have
patched everything before then. I don't
think there's anything we can do to stop
it, but I I think it's a serious
concern.
>> Did what you saw at BYU shape your views
on China?
>> Not really. No. Um uh I worked there for
uh I worked there for a year. You know,
I think I probably learned more about
like speech uh speech recognition and
and you know, all all of that. Maybe the
only thing that concerned me was, you
know, part of how we got all the speech
recognition data was, you know, they're
like they said ominously, we don't care
about privacy in China, so we have all
this this speech recognition data. Um,
but I think I think aside from that, my
worries here are geopolitical. You know,
I think the things that most worried me
about what happened in China are, you
know, what we what we saw happen to the
Weaguers, what we saw with suppression
of criticism even in the US with what
happened with Hong Kong, right? the fact
that that CCP could reach into the US
business network and you know and
suppress criticism that's an
authoritarian state and and a high-tech
authoritarian state and when I see how
that combines with AI you you really get
a a dystopia here like 1984 or worse um
and and my focus is on trying to prevent
that and I think we have an opportunity
to prevent that. I think we have an
opportunity for AI to be a pro-democracy
technology, you know, that kind of makes
people freer, that delivers on the
promise of equal justice for all, or it
could go the other way. And and which
way it goes, it depends on the actions
of the AI companies, it depends on the
actions of the government, depends on
the actions of all of us. And so I see
us as having responsibility here.
There's a moment that people in your
field talk about where AI gets good
enough to improve itself and then the
improved version improves itself and so
on. Some of your researchers think that
that moment is close. How far away is
it?
>> I don't think it's a moment in time. I
think it's a continuous process. We're
already seeing it in some ways where the
AI is able to suggest architectures for
the next AI. You know, I would say a
year ago we were seeing 10 to 15% kind
of increase in total factor productivity
due to AI. Like that's probably up to 20
or 30% now. Might, you know, might it
might be doubling. Like as with all
things, we're on the exponential.
There's no moment where AI improves
itself or runs out of control or becomes
unsafe. What we have is an accelerating
exponential. And at each point on the
exponential, we have to assess is is
this a time to slow down? Is this a time
to, you know, put more controls on on
this technology? I think more and more
of that is going to be required. But I,
you know, I think the Rosetta Stone to
all of this is the smooth exponential.
Again, I think there's an object lesson
in the people who were against all AI
regulation and then they saw one thing
and they wanted to nationalize. I think
there's an object lesson in the people
who dismissed the power of AI and then
said, "Oh my god, it's improving itself.
It's running out of control. We have to
shut it all down." Yo-yoing between
those extreme reactions is incredibly
unhelpful as a response to this
technology. The right response, the wise
response is to say, "We're not going to
panic. Our counter measures will
smoothly ratchet up with the power of
the technology." If you see someone
having this kind of crazy yo-yo
reaction, that's a sign that they were
caught by surprise and that they're not
serious.
>> I understand one of your favorite books
is The Making of the Atomic Bomb.
>> That is correct. Do you see parallels
between yourself and Oppenheimer?
>> You know, the figure I most identified
with was Leo Zillard, who, you know, was
the one who first basically had the idea
that there could be a kind of chain
reaction. Look, my view is we're we're
not going to get through this with like
larger than-l life personalities or like
figures who try and uh be at the center
of everything, right? There needs to be
a balance of power here, right? there's
a lot of powerful actors who have
interests here and the only way it's
going to end well for everyone is if
there is some there's basically checks
and balances everywhere. Um so in some
ways I actually see Oppenheimer as a
failure case as what should not happen.
>> You've said there's roughly a 10 to 25%
chance of civilizational collapse. That
is not insignificant. Is there a
scenario where it's something that
Anthropic built that caused that? uh I
mean I certainly hope not. My view is
that uh you know the the actions that we
have taken lower that probability rather
than increasing it. Right? That
probability comes from the the you know
the very straightforward recipe of the
technology. The existence of many
countries in the world, the existence of
many companies within an economy and new
ones created if the void is isn't
filled. Like that's a dilemma that we're
in. We are trying to act to lower that
probability. I think we lower it a lot
more than we raise it. But, you know,
the inherent property of this technology
is that it's unpredictable. And so, you
know, we try to build something and test
it a lot before it's released. And then
the models that released today are not
dangerous or at least not, you know,
really, I think, dangerous outside of
cyber. Um, and then we try and iterate
and learn from that. So, there's like a
zillion defense mechanisms. you know,
half of what we do within the company is
try and, you know, reduce the risk as
much as we can, but you know, it's it's
never going to be zero. I guess what I
would say is, you know, suppose there
are a bunch of like, you know, airline
companies out there and you're like,
well, I'm going to make an airline
company that's safer. It can both be the
case that, you know, your airline
company is 10 times safer than all the
other airline companies. But, you know,
if if someone comes and asks you like,
can you guarantee that your airplane
will never crash? I mean, how could you
how could you possibly? But if there was
a 25% chance of an airplane crashing,
you wouldn't get on that plane.
>> That's right. 25% is too high. We're
trying to make that probability much,
much lower. That is the goal.
>> You are building something incredibly
powerful and stand to gain enormously
from it. Why should we trust you? My
view of this is actually when any
company starts out and and particularly
you know what we've seen with the
behavior of of just Silicon Valley as an
entity it's its thinking over the last
couple years I think starting from a
position of distrust you know if you
don't know anything about me if you know
anything about anthropic is pretty
rational I think Silicon Valley has lost
a lot of the world's trust and kind of
has to reearn it and the message you
know we're trying to send is we're
actually different and and that has to
be earned in things that We actually do,
you can agree or disagree, but we stood
up for our values. The thing with, you
know, mythos, like it's it's really
hampered us commercially not to put this
very powerful model out. Um, and there
were a bunch of smaller things before
it, you know, we put our money where our
mouth is on, you know, China. We cut off
access to to models. We didn't have to
do that. No one told us to do that. You
know, that cost us several hundred
million back when several hundred
million was a big was a significant
fraction of our revenue. you know, the
the delay of Claude 2, like we have a
long history of it. We aren't perfect.
We make mistakes. But, you know, what I
would ask is for people to look at the
overall history and say if you add up
that overall history, what is the
hypothesis about us that is most
consistent with that overall history?
People have to decide for themselves.
But I think the hypothesis that's
consistent is we are genuinely trying to
do the right thing. We're imperfect.
Organizations are, you know, always
dysfunctional. We're always trying to,
you know, fix them and make them work
better. Many footfalls, many things that
go wrong. But at basis, we we have a
honest and earnest picture of how to do
the right thing. And we're trying to
execute on that picture.
>> We will see you on the other side of the
exponential. done.
>> Uh hopefully [laughter]
>> you always wanted to be a Hollywood
star.
>> I that's one surprising thing that I
didn't understand about the CEO job is
how often you have to [music] wear
makeup. [laughter] Uh, that was not on
my uh bingo card.
>> Just a little powder.
[music]